Module 02

Functions - Built-in

If you wanted to group all those statements together (generally they are related to each other and generally they produce some sort of output), you could group them together inside of a function.

Functions can take in data, those are known as arguments (we will discuss the difference between arguments and parameters shortly). When you pass data to a function, it is known as an argument.

Functions perform some work (a statement), and sometimes they also return a value.

Let's look at an example in the console using Math.max() (this is actually a method, and we will explain the difference between a function and a method shortly, it is not much).

If you run it in the console, it returns negative infinity.

Math.max(10, 12) is a JavaScript statement. The values 10 and 12 that we are passing into the function are called arguments.

If you are passing multiple values to a function, you need to separate each value with a comma and it's best practice to include a space between each.

To repeat, the data that you pass to a function, the data that you give to a function in order for it to run is called an argument.

Sometimes, functions will return to you some data that is generally the answer or the computed output based on what you passed in.

For example, Math.floor(2.4444) will return 2.

Here we are passing one argument of 2.4444 and it returns to us the floor of that value which is 2.

Different Ways to Declare Functions

One thing you will hear often when getting into JavaScript is that functions are "first class citizens".

JavaScript functions are values in themselves, and they can be stored in variables and passed into other functions.

What is a value in JavaScript?

Arrow Functions

The next way to make a function is using an arrow function.

Arrow functions themselves have a few different ways of being declared. They are a newer addition to JavaScript, and were added in the last couple of years.

They have a few benefits:

    concise syntax and tend to be shorter. allow for writing one line functions
    do not have their own scope in reference to the this keyword (we will cover the this keyword in a future video)

Arrow functions are also anonymous functions, which means there is no way to declare an arrow function the way we do a function declaration function doctorize() {..}. You always have to stick it into a variable.

Now we will go to the right of the parenthesis and add what is called a fat arrow =>.

In programming, -> is referred to as a skinny arrow and => is referred to as a fat arrow.

Implicit and Explicit Returns

he next thing we will do is what is called an implicit return.

An explicit return is when you type the return keyword before returning a value.

That is an explicit return meaning that we explicitly return the value there.

An implicit return is returning it without actually having to type the keyword return. Arrow functions allow us to use implicit returns.




